README.MD, before:

# Homelab Media Stack

A comprehensive, production-ready Docker-based media automation stack for home servers and NAS systems. This project provides a complete solution for automated media acquisition, processing, and streaming with enterprise-grade security through VPN integration.

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

This stack uses a **dual-stack architecture** with proper network isolation and shared data volumes:

### **SERVARR STACK** (Download & Management)
- **Network**: `172.39.0.0/24` (isolated)
- **Purpose**: Handles all download and media management operations
- **VPN Protection**: All download traffic routed through Gluetun VPN gateway

### **STREAMARR STACK** (Streaming & Requests)
- **Network**: `172.40.0.0/24` (isolated) 
- **Purpose**: Handles media streaming and user request management
- **Data Access**: Read-only access to organized media files

### **Shared Integration**
- **Data Volume**: `/volume1/data` shared between both stacks
- **Communication**: Inter-stack communication via host networking
- **Processing Flow**: Downloads → FileBot Processing → Organized Media → Streaming

## 📋 Stack Components

### SERVARR STACK Services

| Service | Purpose | Port | Network |
|---------|---------|------|---------|
| **Gluetun** | VPN Gateway | - | VPN Router |
| **qBittorrent** | BitTorrent Client | 8080 | Via VPN |
| **SABnzbd** | Usenet Client | 8090 | Via VPN |
| **Prowlarr** | Indexer Management | 9696 | Via VPN |
| **Sonarr** | TV Show Automation | 8989 | Direct |
| **Radarr** | Movie Automation | 7878 | Direct |
| **Lidarr** | Music Automation | 8686 | Direct |
| **Bazarr** | Subtitle Management | 6767 | Direct |
| **FileBot Node** | File Processing UI | 5452 | Direct |
| **FileBot Watcher** | Auto File Processing | - | Internal |
| **Homarr** | Service Dashboard | 7575 | Direct |
| **Watchtower** | Auto Updates | - | Internal |

### STREAMARR STACK Services

| Service | Purpose | Port | Network |
|---------|---------|------|---------|
| **Plex** | Media Server | 32400 | Direct |
| **Overseerr** | Request Management | 5055 | Direct |  
| **Tautulli** | Analytics & Monitoring | 8181 | Direct |
| **ErsatzTV** | Virtual TV Channels | 8409 | Direct |

## 🔧 Prerequisites

- **Docker & Docker Compose** installed
- **NAS/Server** with sufficient storage (500GB+ recommended)
- **VPN Provider** account (NordVPN, Privado, etc.)
- **Plex Account** (Plex Pass recommended for hardware transcoding)
- **FileBot License** (optional, for advanced processing)

### System Requirements

**Minimum:**
- CPU: 2 cores
- RAM: 8GB
- Storage: 500GB
- Network: 100Mbps

**Recommended:**
- CPU: 4+ cores with Intel QuickSync
- RAM: 16GB+
- Storage: 2TB+ (SSD for configs, HDD for media)
- Network: Gigabit connection

## 🚀 Quick Start - Choose Your Path

### 🌟 **Option A: Automated Setup (Recommended for Beginners)**

**Perfect for users who:**
- ✅ Want a hassle-free, guided setup experience
- ✅ Are new to Docker or homelab setups
- ✅ Prefer automated platform detection and configuration
- ✅ Want to get up and running in under 10 minutes

#### **🎯 One-Command Setup**

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack.git
cd homelab-media-stack

# 2. Run the universal setup script
./scripts/setup.sh
```

**That's it!** The script will:
- 🔍 **Auto-detect your platform** (Windows, macOS, Linux, Synology, QNAP, Unraid, etc.)
- ✅ **Check prerequisites** (Docker, Docker Compose)
- 📁 **Create all directories** with proper permissions
- ⚙️ **Configure environment files** with your system settings
- 🌐 **Set up Docker networks** for security isolation
- 🚀 **Deploy both stacks** (optional)
- 📊 **Show all service URLs** for easy access

#### **💻 Platform-Specific Instructions**

**Linux/macOS/NAS:**
```bash
chmod +x scripts/setup.sh
./scripts/setup.sh
```

**Windows (choose one):**
```bash
# Option 1: WSL2 (Recommended)
wsl
./scripts/setup.sh

# Option 2: Git Bash
./scripts/setup.sh

# Option 3: PowerShell via WSL
wsl --exec ./scripts/setup.sh
```

#### **🎮 What You'll See**
The setup script provides a beautiful, interactive experience:
```
╔═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║                          HOMELAB MEDIA STACK                                 ║
║                       Universal Setup Script v2.0                            ║
║  Supports: Windows • macOS • Linux • Synology • UGREEN • QNAP               ║
║           TrueNAS • Unraid • Proxmox • And More!                            ║
╚═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

● Detecting your platform...
✓ Detected platform: synology
✓ Default path: /volume1
✓ PUID/PGID: 1026:100

Please confirm or select your platform:
1) Synology NAS
2) UGREEN NAS  
3) QNAP NAS
[... and more]
```

---

### 🛠️ **Option B: Manual Setup (For Experienced Users)**

**Perfect for users who:**
- ✅ Want full control over the setup process
- ✅ Have experience with Docker and containerization
- ✅ Prefer to understand each step in detail
- ✅ Need custom configurations beyond the script

#### **1. Clone Repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack.git
cd homelab-media-stack
```

#### **2. Create Directory Structure**

**Linux/Mac/NAS Command Line:**
```bash
# Create base directories
mkdir -p /volume1/docker/{servarr,streamarr}
mkdir -p /volume1/data/{downloads/{complete,incomplete},media/{movies,tv,music},plex_transcode}

# Set permissions (adjust PUID/PGID for your system)
chown -R 1001:1000 /volume1/docker /volume1/data
```

**NAS GUI (Synology, QNAP, Unraid):**
1. **File Manager** → Create shared folder `docker`
2. **File Manager** → Create shared folder `data`
3. **Inside docker**: Create folders `servarr` and `streamarr`
4. **Inside data**: Create folders:
   - `downloads` (with subfolders `complete` and `incomplete`)
   - `media` (with subfolders `movies`, `tv`, `music`)
   - `plex_transcode`

**Windows:**
```powershell
# Create directories
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\docker\servarr" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\docker\streamarr" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\downloads\complete" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\downloads\incomplete" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\media\movies" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\media\tv" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\media\music" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\plex_transcode" -Force
```

#### **3. Create Docker Networks**
```bash
# Create isolated networks for the stacks
docker network create --driver bridge --subnet=172.39.0.0/24 servarr-network
docker network create --driver bridge --subnet=172.40.0.0/24 streamarr-network
```

#### **4. Configure Environment Files**
```bash
# Copy example files
cp .env-servarr.example .env-servarr
cp .env-streamarr.example .env-streamarr
```

**Edit .env-servarr:**
```bash
# System Configuration (find with: id)
PUID=1001
PGID=1000
TZ=America/Los_Angeles

# VPN Configuration - REQUIRED
VPN_SERVICE_PROVIDER=nordvpn  # or privado, expressvpn, etc.
OPENVPN_USER=your-vpn-username
OPENVPN_PASSWORD=your-vpn-password
SERVER_COUNTRIES=United States

# Paths (adjust for your system)
SERVARR_CONFIG_PATH=/volume1/docker/servarr
DATA_PATH=/volume1/data
MEDIA_DATA_PATH=/volume1/data/media
```

**Edit .env-streamarr:**
```bash
# System Configuration (same as servarr)
PUID=1001
PGID=1000
TZ=America/Los_Angeles

# Plex Configuration
PLEX_CLAIM_TOKEN=claim-xxxxxxxxxx  # Get from https://plex.tv/claim
PLEX_ADVERTISE_URL=http://192.168.1.100:32400  # Your server IP
PLEX_NO_AUTH_NETWORKS=192.168.1.0/24,172.40.0.0/24

# Paths
STREAMARR_CONFIG_PATH=/volume1/docker/streamarr
DATA_PATH=/volume1/data
```

#### **5. Deploy Stacks**
```bash
# Start download & management stack
docker-compose --env-file .env-servarr -f docker-compose-servarr.yml up -d

# Wait for VPN connection (2-3 minutes), then start streaming stack
docker-compose --env-file .env-streamarr -f docker-compose-streamarr.yml up -d
```

#### **6. Verify Deployment**
```bash
# Check all containers are running
docker ps

# Verify VPN protection
docker exec qbittorrent curl -s ifconfig.me
# Should show VPN IP, not your real IP
```

---

## 🎯 Initial Configuration

### Access Your Services
- **Homarr Dashboard**: http://your-server-ip:7575
- **Plex Media Server**: http://your-server-ip:32400/web
- **Overseerr**: http://your-server-ip:5055
- **qBittorrent**: http://your-server-ip:8080

### Quick Setup Checklist
1. **qBittorrent**: Change default password, set download paths
2. **Sonarr/Radarr**: Add root folders, configure download client
3. **Plex**: Add libraries, enable hardware transcoding
4. **Overseerr**: Connect to Plex and *arr services
5. **Prowlarr**: Add indexers and sync to *arr apps

*See [Quick Start Guide](docs/QUICK_START.md) for detailed configuration steps.*

## 🔄 Data Flow & Processing

### Automated Workflow
```
1. User Request (Overseerr) → Sonarr/Radarr
2. Content Search → Prowlarr → Indexers  
3. Download → qBittorrent/SABnzbd (via VPN)
4. Complete Download → /data/downloads/complete/
5. FileBot Watcher → Process & Organize → /data/media/
6. Plex → Scan & Serve → Users
7. Tautulli → Monitor Usage → Analytics
```

## 🛡️ Security Features

### VPN Protection
- **All downloads** routed through VPN (Gluetun)
- **Kill switch** prevents leaks if VPN fails
- **DNS leak protection** via containerized DNS
- **Port forwarding** support (provider dependent)

### Network Isolation
- **Separate networks** for servarr and streamarr stacks
- **No direct internet access** for download clients
- **Controlled communication** between service stacks

## 🔄 Maintenance

### Updates
**Automatic (Recommended):**
- Watchtower updates containers automatically

**Manual:**
```bash
# Pull latest images
docker-compose --env-file .env-servarr -f docker-compose-servarr.yml pull
docker-compose --env-file .env-streamarr -f docker-compose-streamarr.yml pull

# Restart with new images
docker-compose --env-file .env-servarr -f docker-compose-servarr.yml up -d
docker-compose --env-file .env-streamarr -f docker-compose-streamarr.yml up -d
```

### Monitoring & Backups
```bash
# Health monitoring (if setup script was used)
./scripts/healthcheck.sh

# Check VPN protection
docker exec qbittorrent curl -s ifconfig.me

# Create backups (if setup script was used)
./scripts/backup.sh --full

# Manual backup of critical configs
tar -czf backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).tar.gz /volume1/docker/
```

## 🛠️ Platform-Specific Notes

### **Synology NAS**
- Use Container Manager (new Docker package)
- Create shared folders via File Station
- Enable SSH for command-line access
- Set PUID/PGID to match DSM user (usually 1026:100)

### **QNAP NAS**
- Install Container Station
- Use File Manager for directory creation
- Enable SSH via QTS settings
- Adjust PUID/PGID for QTS user

### **Unraid**
- Use Community Applications for Docker
- Create user shares for directories
- Enable SSH via Unraid settings
- Set PUID/PGID to match Unraid user (usually 99:100)

### **Windows**
- Install Docker Desktop
- Use PowerShell for directory creation
- Adjust paths in environment files (C:\homelab\...)
- Set PUID/PGID to 1000:1000

## 📚 Documentation

- [Scripts Documentation](scripts/README.md) - Universal setup script and utilities
- [Quick Start Guide](docs/QUICK_START.md) - 30-minute detailed setup
- [Troubleshooting Guide](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues and solutions
- [Directory Structure](docs/DIRECTORY_STRUCTURE.md) - Complete data flow explanation
- [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) - How to contribute

## 🎯 Key Features

- **🚀 Universal Setup Script**: One script works on all platforms (Windows, macOS, Linux, NAS)
- **🧠 Smart Platform Detection**: Automatically configures for your system
- **🛡️ VPN-First Security**: All downloads protected with kill switch
- **🌐 Network Isolation**: Separate networks for security and performance
- **🗂️ FileBot Integration**: Automated file organization and renaming
- **💻 Hardware Transcoding**: Intel QuickSync support for efficient streaming
- **📱 Request Management**: User-friendly interface via Overseerr
- **📊 Analytics**: Comprehensive monitoring via Tautulli
- **📺 Virtual TV**: Create custom TV channels with ErsatzTV
- **🔄 Auto Updates**: Watchtower keeps containers current
- **🩺 Health Monitoring**: Built-in health checks and restart policies

## 🌟 Why Choose This Stack?

### **For Beginners:**
- **🎯 One-command setup** gets you running in minutes
- **🔍 Auto-detection** handles platform-specific configurations
- **📚 Comprehensive documentation** guides you through everything
- **🛡️ Security by default** with VPN protection built-in

### **For Advanced Users:**
- **🔧 Full manual control** over every aspect of the setup
- **📋 Modular architecture** allows customization and extension
- **🌐 Network isolation** for enterprise-grade security
- **🔄 GitOps ready** with version-controlled configurations

### **For Everyone:**
- **🌍 Universal compatibility** across all major platforms
- **🚀 Production-ready** with enterprise-grade features
- **💰 Cost-effective** using open-source components
- **👥 Active community** support and contributions

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting pull requests.

### Areas for Contribution
- **Platform-specific guides** (additional NAS systems, virtualization platforms)
- **Additional VPN providers** configuration examples
- **Enhanced monitoring** and alerting integrations
- **Documentation improvements** and translations
- **Security enhancements** and best practices

## 🆘 Support

- **🔧 Setup Issues**: Use the automated setup script or check [Troubleshooting Guide](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md)
- **📖 Documentation**: Check the [docs/](docs/) directory
- **🐛 Bug Reports**: Open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack/issues)
- **💬 Discussions**: Join [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack/discussions)
- **👥 Community**: Reddit r/selfhosted, r/homelab, r/PleX

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This software is for educational and personal use only. Users are responsible for:
- **Complying with local laws** regarding content acquisition
- **Respecting copyright** and intellectual property rights  
- **Using legal content sources** and indexers
- **VPN provider terms of service** compliance

The authors assume no responsibility for misuse of this software.

## 🌟 Acknowledgments

- **Created by**: [The Garage Labs](https://thegaragelabs.cc)
- **Inspired by**: [TechHutTV Homelab](https://github.com/TechHutTV/homelab/blob/main/media/) and [TRaSH-Guides](https://trash-guides.info)
- **Built with**: Docker, Docker Compose, and the excellent work of the *arr developers
- **Special thanks**: To the selfhosted community for continuous innovation

---

*Happy Streaming! 🎬🎵📺*

Commit message:

docs: add Community Impact analysis and integrate into documentation structure
- Add comprehensive COMMUNITY_IMPACT.md to docs/ folder analyzing project value
- Document why this project transforms the self-hosted media landscape
- Highlight universal automation, security-first design, and platform democracy
- Explain community benefits for beginners, advanced users, and ecosystem

Documentation Integration:
- Add prominent link in README.MD 'Why Choose This Stack' section
- Include in main documentation list with clear description
- Reference in QUICK_START.md help section for context
- Update CHANGELOG.md to document as core project documentation

Strategic Positioning:
- Position as essential reading for understanding project value proposition
- Create multiple discovery paths for maximum visibility
- Integrate contextually where users make adoption decisions
- Establish foundation for community growth and project recognition

The document serves as both project advocacy and educational resource,
explaining how this stack bridges the gap between complexity and accessibility
while setting new standards for self-hosted media automation.

README.MD, after:

# Homelab Media Stack

A comprehensive, production-ready Docker-based media automation stack for home servers and NAS systems. This project provides a complete solution for automated media acquisition, processing, and streaming with enterprise-grade security through VPN integration.

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

This stack uses a **dual-stack architecture** with proper network isolation and shared data volumes:

### **SERVARR STACK** (Download & Management)
- **Network**: `172.39.0.0/24` (isolated)
- **Purpose**: Handles all download and media management operations
- **VPN Protection**: All download traffic routed through Gluetun VPN gateway

### **STREAMARR STACK** (Streaming & Requests)
- **Network**: `172.40.0.0/24` (isolated) 
- **Purpose**: Handles media streaming and user request management
- **Data Access**: Read-only access to organized media files

### **Shared Integration**
- **Data Volume**: `/volume1/data` shared between both stacks
- **Communication**: Inter-stack communication via host networking
- **Processing Flow**: Downloads → FileBot Processing → Organized Media → Streaming

## 📋 Stack Components

### SERVARR STACK Services

| Service | Purpose | Port | Network |
|---------|---------|------|---------|
| **Gluetun** | VPN Gateway | - | VPN Router |
| **qBittorrent** | BitTorrent Client | 8080 | Via VPN |
| **SABnzbd** | Usenet Client | 8090 | Via VPN |
| **Prowlarr** | Indexer Management | 9696 | Via VPN |
| **Sonarr** | TV Show Automation | 8989 | Direct |
| **Radarr** | Movie Automation | 7878 | Direct |
| **Lidarr** | Music Automation | 8686 | Direct |
| **Bazarr** | Subtitle Management | 6767 | Direct |
| **FileBot Node** | File Processing UI | 5452 | Direct |
| **FileBot Watcher** | Auto File Processing | - | Internal |
| **Homarr** | Service Dashboard | 7575 | Direct |
| **Watchtower** | Auto Updates | - | Internal |

### STREAMARR STACK Services

| Service | Purpose | Port | Network |
|---------|---------|------|---------|
| **Plex** | Media Server | 32400 | Direct |
| **Overseerr** | Request Management | 5055 | Direct |  
| **Tautulli** | Analytics & Monitoring | 8181 | Direct |
| **ErsatzTV** | Virtual TV Channels | 8409 | Direct |

## 🔧 Prerequisites

- **Docker & Docker Compose** installed
- **NAS/Server** with sufficient storage (500GB+ recommended)
- **VPN Provider** account (NordVPN, Privado, etc.)
- **Plex Account** (Plex Pass recommended for hardware transcoding)
- **FileBot License** (optional, for advanced processing)

### System Requirements

**Minimum:**
- CPU: 2 cores
- RAM: 8GB
- Storage: 500GB
- Network: 100Mbps

**Recommended:**
- CPU: 4+ cores with Intel QuickSync
- RAM: 16GB+
- Storage: 2TB+ (SSD for configs, HDD for media)
- Network: Gigabit connection

## 🚀 Quick Start - Choose Your Path

### 🌟 **Option A: Automated Setup (Recommended for Beginners)**

**Perfect for users who:**
- ✅ Want a hassle-free, guided setup experience
- ✅ Are new to Docker or homelab setups
- ✅ Prefer automated platform detection and configuration
- ✅ Want to get up and running in under 10 minutes

#### **🎯 One-Command Setup**

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack.git
cd homelab-media-stack

# 2. Run the universal setup script
./scripts/setup.sh
```

**That's it!** The script will:
- 🔍 **Auto-detect your platform** (Windows, macOS, Linux, Synology, QNAP, Unraid, etc.)
- ✅ **Check prerequisites** (Docker, Docker Compose)
- 📁 **Create all directories** with proper permissions
- ⚙️ **Configure environment files** with your system settings
- 🌐 **Set up Docker networks** for security isolation
- 🚀 **Deploy both stacks** (optional)
- 📊 **Show all service URLs** for easy access

#### **💻 Platform-Specific Instructions**

**Linux/macOS/NAS:**
```bash
chmod +x scripts/setup.sh
./scripts/setup.sh
```

**Windows (choose one):**
```bash
# Option 1: WSL2 (Recommended)
wsl
./scripts/setup.sh

# Option 2: Git Bash
./scripts/setup.sh

# Option 3: PowerShell via WSL
wsl --exec ./scripts/setup.sh
```

#### **🎮 What You'll See**
The setup script provides a beautiful, interactive experience:
```
╔═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║                          HOMELAB MEDIA STACK                                 ║
║                       Universal Setup Script v2.0                            ║
║  Supports: Windows • macOS • Linux • Synology • UGREEN • QNAP               ║
║           TrueNAS • Unraid • Proxmox • And More!                            ║
╚═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

● Detecting your platform...
✓ Detected platform: synology
✓ Default path: /volume1
✓ PUID/PGID: 1026:100

Please confirm or select your platform:
1) Synology NAS
2) UGREEN NAS  
3) QNAP NAS
[... and more]
```

---

### 🛠️ **Option B: Manual Setup (For Experienced Users)**

**Perfect for users who:**
- ✅ Want full control over the setup process
- ✅ Have experience with Docker and containerization
- ✅ Prefer to understand each step in detail
- ✅ Need custom configurations beyond the script

#### **1. Clone Repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack.git
cd homelab-media-stack
```

#### **2. Create Directory Structure**

**Linux/Mac/NAS Command Line:**
```bash
# Create base directories
mkdir -p /volume1/docker/{servarr,streamarr}
mkdir -p /volume1/data/{downloads/{complete,incomplete},media/{movies,tv,music},plex_transcode}

# Set permissions (adjust PUID/PGID for your system)
chown -R 1001:1000 /volume1/docker /volume1/data
```

**NAS GUI (Synology, QNAP, Unraid):**
1. **File Manager** → Create shared folder `docker`
2. **File Manager** → Create shared folder `data`
3. **Inside docker**: Create folders `servarr` and `streamarr`
4. **Inside data**: Create folders:
   - `downloads` (with subfolders `complete` and `incomplete`)
   - `media` (with subfolders `movies`, `tv`, `music`)
   - `plex_transcode`

**Windows:**
```powershell
# Create directories
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\docker\servarr" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\docker\streamarr" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\downloads\complete" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\downloads\incomplete" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\media\movies" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\media\tv" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\media\music" -Force
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path "C:\homelab\data\plex_transcode" -Force
```

#### **3. Create Docker Networks**
```bash
# Create isolated networks for the stacks
docker network create --driver bridge --subnet=172.39.0.0/24 servarr-network
docker network create --driver bridge --subnet=172.40.0.0/24 streamarr-network
```

#### **4. Configure Environment Files**
```bash
# Copy example files
cp .env-servarr.example .env-servarr
cp .env-streamarr.example .env-streamarr
```

**Edit .env-servarr:**
```bash
# System Configuration (find with: id)
PUID=1001
PGID=1000
TZ=America/Los_Angeles

# VPN Configuration - REQUIRED
VPN_SERVICE_PROVIDER=nordvpn  # or privado, expressvpn, etc.
OPENVPN_USER=your-vpn-username
OPENVPN_PASSWORD=your-vpn-password
SERVER_COUNTRIES=United States

# Paths (adjust for your system)
SERVARR_CONFIG_PATH=/volume1/docker/servarr
DATA_PATH=/volume1/data
MEDIA_DATA_PATH=/volume1/data/media
```

**Edit .env-streamarr:**
```bash
# System Configuration (same as servarr)
PUID=1001
PGID=1000
TZ=America/Los_Angeles

# Plex Configuration
PLEX_CLAIM_TOKEN=claim-xxxxxxxxxx  # Get from https://plex.tv/claim
PLEX_ADVERTISE_URL=http://192.168.1.100:32400  # Your server IP
PLEX_NO_AUTH_NETWORKS=192.168.1.0/24,172.40.0.0/24

# Paths
STREAMARR_CONFIG_PATH=/volume1/docker/streamarr
DATA_PATH=/volume1/data
```

#### **5. Deploy Stacks**
```bash
# Start download & management stack
docker-compose --env-file .env-servarr -f docker-compose-servarr.yml up -d

# Wait for VPN connection (2-3 minutes), then start streaming stack
docker-compose --env-file .env-streamarr -f docker-compose-streamarr.yml up -d
```

#### **6. Verify Deployment**
```bash
# Check all containers are running
docker ps

# Verify VPN protection
docker exec qbittorrent curl -s ifconfig.me
# Should show VPN IP, not your real IP
```

---

## 🎯 Initial Configuration

### Access Your Services
- **Homarr Dashboard**: http://your-server-ip:7575
- **Plex Media Server**: http://your-server-ip:32400/web
- **Overseerr**: http://your-server-ip:5055
- **qBittorrent**: http://your-server-ip:8080

### Quick Setup Checklist
1. **qBittorrent**: Change default password, set download paths
2. **Sonarr/Radarr**: Add root folders, configure download client
3. **Plex**: Add libraries, enable hardware transcoding
4. **Overseerr**: Connect to Plex and *arr services
5. **Prowlarr**: Add indexers and sync to *arr apps

*See [Quick Start Guide](docs/QUICK_START.md) for detailed configuration steps.*

## 🔄 Data Flow & Processing

### Automated Workflow
```
1. User Request (Overseerr) → Sonarr/Radarr
2. Content Search → Prowlarr → Indexers  
3. Download → qBittorrent/SABnzbd (via VPN)
4. Complete Download → /data/downloads/complete/
5. FileBot Watcher → Process & Organize → /data/media/
6. Plex → Scan & Serve → Users
7. Tautulli → Monitor Usage → Analytics
```

## 🛡️ Security Features

### VPN Protection
- **All downloads** routed through VPN (Gluetun)
- **Kill switch** prevents leaks if VPN fails
- **DNS leak protection** via containerized DNS
- **Port forwarding** support (provider dependent)

### Network Isolation
- **Separate networks** for servarr and streamarr stacks
- **No direct internet access** for download clients
- **Controlled communication** between service stacks

## 🔄 Maintenance

### Updates
**Automatic (Recommended):**
- Watchtower updates containers automatically

**Manual:**
```bash
# Pull latest images
docker-compose --env-file .env-servarr -f docker-compose-servarr.yml pull
docker-compose --env-file .env-streamarr -f docker-compose-streamarr.yml pull

# Restart with new images
docker-compose --env-file .env-servarr -f docker-compose-servarr.yml up -d
docker-compose --env-file .env-streamarr -f docker-compose-streamarr.yml up -d
```

### Monitoring & Backups
```bash
# Health monitoring (if setup script was used)
./scripts/healthcheck.sh

# Check VPN protection
docker exec qbittorrent curl -s ifconfig.me

# Create backups (if setup script was used)
./scripts/backup.sh --full

# Manual backup of critical configs
tar -czf backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).tar.gz /volume1/docker/
```

## 🛠️ Platform-Specific Notes

### **Synology NAS**
- Use Container Manager (new Docker package)
- Create shared folders via File Station
- Enable SSH for command-line access
- Set PUID/PGID to match DSM user (usually 1026:100)

### **QNAP NAS**
- Install Container Station
- Use File Manager for directory creation
- Enable SSH via QTS settings
- Adjust PUID/PGID for QTS user

### **Unraid**
- Use Community Applications for Docker
- Create user shares for directories
- Enable SSH via Unraid settings
- Set PUID/PGID to match Unraid user (usually 99:100)

### **Windows**
- Install Docker Desktop
- Use PowerShell for directory creation
- Adjust paths in environment files (C:\homelab\...)
- Set PUID/PGID to 1000:1000

## 📚 Documentation

- [Community Impact & Project Value](docs/COMMUNITY_IMPACT.md) - Why this project matters
- [Scripts Documentation](scripts/README.md) - Universal setup script and utilities
- [Quick Start Guide](docs/QUICK_START.md) - 30-minute detailed setup
- [Troubleshooting Guide](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues and solutions
- [Directory Structure](docs/DIRECTORY_STRUCTURE.md) - Complete data flow explanation
- [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) - How to contribute

## 🎯 Key Features

- **🚀 Universal Setup Script**: One script works on all platforms (Windows, macOS, Linux, NAS)
- **🧠 Smart Platform Detection**: Automatically configures for your system
- **🛡️ VPN-First Security**: All downloads protected with kill switch
- **🌐 Network Isolation**: Separate networks for security and performance
- **🗂️ FileBot Integration**: Automated file organization and renaming
- **💻 Hardware Transcoding**: Intel QuickSync support for efficient streaming
- **📱 Request Management**: User-friendly interface via Overseerr
- **📊 Analytics**: Comprehensive monitoring via Tautulli
- **📺 Virtual TV**: Create custom TV channels with ErsatzTV
- **🔄 Auto Updates**: Watchtower keeps containers current
- **🩺 Health Monitoring**: Built-in health checks and restart policies

## 🌟 Why Choose This Stack?

### **For Beginners:**
- **🎯 One-command setup** gets you running in minutes
- **🔍 Auto-detection** handles platform-specific configurations
- **📚 Comprehensive documentation** guides you through everything
- **🛡️ Security by default** with VPN protection built-in

### **For Advanced Users:**
- **🔧 Full manual control** over every aspect of the setup
- **📋 Modular architecture** allows customization and extension
- **🌐 Network isolation** for enterprise-grade security
- **🔄 GitOps ready** with version-controlled configurations

### **For Everyone:**
- **🌍 Universal compatibility** across all major platforms
- **🚀 Production-ready** with enterprise-grade features
- **💰 Cost-effective** using open-source components
- **👥 Active community** support and contributions

> **💡 Want to understand the full impact?** Read our [Community Impact & Project Value](docs/COMMUNITY_IMPACT.md) analysis to see why this project is transforming the self-hosted media landscape.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting pull requests.

### Areas for Contribution
- **Platform-specific guides** (additional NAS systems, virtualization platforms)
- **Additional VPN providers** configuration examples
- **Enhanced monitoring** and alerting integrations
- **Documentation improvements** and translations
- **Security enhancements** and best practices

## 🆘 Support

- **🔧 Setup Issues**: Use the automated setup script or check [Troubleshooting Guide](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md)
- **📖 Documentation**: Check the [docs/](docs/) directory
- **🐛 Bug Reports**: Open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack/issues)
- **💬 Discussions**: Join [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/bharry29/homelab-media-stack/discussions)
- **👥 Community**: Reddit r/selfhosted, r/homelab, r/PleX

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This software is for educational and personal use only. Users are responsible for:
- **Complying with local laws** regarding content acquisition
- **Respecting copyright** and intellectual property rights  
- **Using legal content sources** and indexers
- **VPN provider terms of service** compliance

The authors assume no responsibility for misuse of this software.

## 🌟 Acknowledgments

- **Created by**: [The Garage Labs](https://thegaragelabs.cc)
- **Inspired by**: [TechHutTV Homelab](https://github.com/TechHutTV/homelab/blob/main/media/) and [TRaSH-Guides](https://trash-guides.info)
- **Built with**: Docker, Docker Compose, and the excellent work of the *arr developers
- **Special thanks**: To the selfhosted community for continuous innovation

---

*Happy Streaming! 🎬🎵📺*
